All right let's go ahead and start talking about app marketing.
Now I'm going to kind of break this into two sections.
The first bit I'm going to talk about is what I consider to be the basics.
And so first thing going to dive with some general principles about making an app that maybe not necessarily
with marketing but sometimes I can I feel like is more important than the actual marketing.
So number one is let's say you have an idea for an app.
In my instance I'm going to be talking about an app that I made which is called later it allows you
to send text messages at a later point in time.
So this was actually an iOS app that wasn't an Android app and some of you are going to be laughing
because that is standard functionality on an Android device but it's not on ios so thus That's why I
created this iOS app because I thought you know the people on iOS need to know about this.
But anyways I had this idea for this app so let's say you have an idea for an app that will allow you
to schedule text messages to be sent out at a later time.
Well if you are going to build this app I cannot recommend enough that you should draw out every single
piece of that app before you do anything just literally on a white piece of paper in a notebook wherever
it is you want to do it just get out and draw.
This is going to be the first screen of the app when you hit this button.
Then you go to this screen when you hit that button then you go to the screen.
And the reason for this is I have started many apps without drawing it out beforehand and I find myself
maybe you know two or three days into building this thing and I think well how is this going to work.
And I get lost on some point and I'm like well then maybe I should make a screen that does this and
then I think well then how are we going to handle this situation.
And it's just a really turns into a big nasty mess and I never get the project out the door.
So my first major tip here is draw out everything before you do anything because it gives you a nice
plan of exactly what it is that you're trying to build you know what you're aiming towards.
And I think it will actually make your project a success.
I've seen too many of my own projects die.
I now have a very strict rule I do not type 1 line of code until I have the entire thing drawn out because
I know that really increases the chances of success.
So that's my first major tip.
Their next one is you kind of have to make a decision about whether you're building this app or you're
going to buy someone some help to get this kind of the build or buy question now because you've taken
this course.
And you know all about programming now you're probably going to be in the build category but there's
also an option there to now work with some other developers that you're saying.
OK.
I know the basics maybe I want to work in tandem with another developer that I can hire or maybe I just
want to say you know what you guys completely handle it.
But now with my skills you know I'll be able to dive in and make sure that you're writing good code
whatever it is you're working with a freelancer you know or just somebody that you know.
But that's kind of a decision you have to weigh out before you get started on anything again because
you're taking this course you're probably going to be in the build category but just know that by option
is out there next is you need to make some sort of plan for your monetization.
So if the app that you're building is just a fun app and you're just making putting it on the App Store
because you know it's a hobby you're making an app for something that you love.
Honestly this later started as something that I just wanted for myself.
I just thought yeah you know this is something I'd like to see on iOS devices I don't really care about
monetization.
So if that's you you know you don't have to give any thought to how you're going to make money with
this.
But you know if this is a little side hustle of yours you want to make some money with it want it to
be your full time thing whatever it is.
There are three ways that you can make money.
So one of them is through a straight up purchase of the app where it says OK if you want to download
the app you've got to pay 99 cents and then you can have it on your phone game.
That's the purchase option.
The next one is ads.
Right so someone you know opens up the app and there's some ads there maybe at the bottom of the screen
or Typically in games it's like after you've done a few things a big full screen ads are going to pop
up and you have to you know wait for the timer to run out on that thing.
I hate that thing and games but you know people got to get paid.
And then the last way to do that is through in-app purchases.
So sometimes we see in-app purchases and ads sort of in tandem where it's like oh do you want to get
the ad free experience.
Well here you know get this one ninety nine in that purchase and we can get rid of those ads other time
in-app purchases can be more like a subscription.
That's what I've done with my later app where it says hey if you want this you know I had sort of a
basic version of my app that was free but if you wanted the more advanced features you would have to
pay for ninety nine a month or if you bought three months or six months it would be a little bit cheaper.
But basically it was you know you would pay a subscription fee for the more advanced features.
So those are kind of three different methods for your app.
Oh kind of way out when I think the pros and cons are of each.
So number one the straight up purchase.
Hi I'm not a fan of this mode of taxation at all.
To be honest it's the cleanest way to do it because you know people pay money.
They use your app you never have to worry about OK these are the free features these are the paid features
right.
But people it just our whole society has moved into a way that most people can try things for free and
then they end up paying for them.
I mean think about Spotify Netflix YouTube TV whatever it is.
Usually you get like a free trial so that you can test it out and then if there's you know something
more advanced that you want you can always go pay for it or you know your free trial will run out.
I think you're really just moving against the grain if you do this purchase option.
To me this is sort of a legacy way of paying for things that we saw back when people created software
and put it on CDs and you had to go to the you know software store to go buy that physically and bring
it back to your computer.
I really don't think it works well with apps but some people really love the whole idea of just you
know their customer pays for it and then they just provide awesome support for it in the next one is
ads.
So ads is kind of a mix ground here.
There's two things that you've got to worry about.
So one is how are your users going to react to the ads are they going to be completely and by them is
it going to completely ruin the experience.
Plus you have to make sure you're getting the correct ads from people so Google has an excellent ad
service to provide ads in your app that you'll get paid from.
There's there's other special the ad platforms that you can use.
I think particularly for games you'll find all sorts of companies there.
But I have an app that I was doing with a friend that was supported with ads in the company behind those
ads suddenly had some sort of legal issue.
And for about two months they weren't running any of their ads ads and we didn't have anything in place
to go you know have some sort of backup or something and we lost a ton of revenue.
We weren't expecting to lose because also their ads dried up because the ad provider wasn't there for
us and we got totally hosed during that time.
And so if you're supported by ads it's a little bit of a feast or famine kind of situation.
Things can be can either be really really good or they can be really really bad depending on the situation.
So if you're doing ads I would say make sure you're doing it in a tasteful way that doesn't anger your
users that you still get good reviews.
I also think if you're going to offer ads you should also offer an option to pay in that purchase to
get rid of them.
That can really help out your users.
And then the second thing is you've got to make sure you have lots of different ad providers so that
in case one of them goes down the other one just automatically shows up and you should have that programmed
in your code so that you don't have to you know oh the apps are out we've got to go put it on new.
That was my friend and I we were in a mad panic to get these new updates in and it took forever to figure
out.
And eventually once it got into the App Store I think it was a month or two month period where we were
kind of all messed up there.
Maybe it was short or maybe I'm exaggerating here but there's that and then the last one is the in App
purchases.
So like I said I really like this one especially in connection with the ads.
I think that's a great way so that people who don't want to pay can still get quote unquote pay with
viewing the ads.
Yet if people don't like that experience they can pay for it.
Also the upgraded features I've seen that my own personal app with later the subscription service is
really really great because you'll get some returning customers and people you know will see oh if I
you know have to pay this much for one month I might as well get the three month or six month because
there's this awesome savings so sometimes you can get some really good up cells there.
But I think it's really important that you pick one of these options are a combination of them before
you get started on your out because if you want this app to make money you got to know where it's coming
from and it's really going to be a big integral part of your app.
For example with my later stuff if it was going to be ad supported versus you know this subscription
service.
Well that completely changes what I would be having the ads showing up in certain places and the other
one you know I'd reserve a certain set of features for the subscription service and the other set for
the free side of things so just something you want to think about.
The last thing that I want to cover here is that you should tell a story with your app.
So whether you have a mobile game or it's a productivity app it's a map thing whatever your app is.
You should have some sort of story behind it because you want your users users to fall in love with
what you've created.
And also it's a really great opportunity to get some press for example with my later app.
I built the app out of frustration.
I'm someone who is a night owl.
I'm always up at like 1:00 2:00 in the morning and I think of these things that I'd want to text family
and friends but I couldn't text it at 2:00 in the morning.
Your friends will think you're crazy.
And so I needed an app where I could type out the message to someone and say you know just send this
at 8:00 a.m. in the morning.
And so I kind of had this cool story about the motivation behind building my app and so when I made
my app I included some of that story in the description of the app I sent that out to some news publications
and it got picked up by C-Net and somebody there wrote a review of it and oh my goodness I still remember
the day crystal clear.
I think I had 4000 app downloads in one day from this one article and it just blew my mind.
How many downloads I was getting because before that I think I was getting 20 maybe 30 downloads a day
and those were you know some really good days and then all of a sudden four thousand one day and I know
friends who are app developers who have gotten even bigger numbers than that so there's even more out
there for you.
But I really think you should have a story it helps with both your users and if you're trying to get
some press for your app.
So next we're going to move into what I consider to be a really great way to make sure you have a good
app to give to users and that's by getting your friends to test the app.
So this was something that happened to me when I was building an app.
It was this app to help you learn how to do a specific skill.
So in this case the very first one that I made was weightlifting.
So if you wanted to increase your upper body lower body abs whatever it was it was an app that would
give you all the best videos for that.
And there was like a little workout journal all this stuff and so I had spent months building this app
just kind of in my room on my own plugging away on this thing.
And I went to go submitted to the App Store.
This was again on the iOS platform and it got rejected and it was a really nice note from Apple and
it basically said your app is crap and I just thought well what's so bad about this.
So I remember very vividly handing my app to a friend and saying hey what do you think about me.
My app.
And when I handed them the app I didn't say anything.
I just let them look at it and they didn't know where to start.
They opened it up and said What do I do.
Like what's this app about.
And I you know I was like oh you're really supposed to do this and like OK and they tapped into a thing
and then they said well how am I supposed to play the video.
I'm like oh well you're supposed to click here.
And I kind of had this aha moment that this whole time building this app I had assumed that this was
the most user friendly app in the world.
Everyone knew exactly how to use it but when I put it in the hands of someone else it was a really poorly
designed app and it didn't work very well.
And so I think this is an excellent test to make sure that you have a good app you give your app to
friends and families.
It could even be a random stranger but don't say anything except Hey I just made this new app I want
you to check it out and tell me what you think or I just want you to go ahead and play around with this
app like don't give them too many stipulations.
But the big thing is hand the app to them and shut up because you want to see what they do without you
telling them if at some point you have to tell them what to do.
You know that something's wrong with your app and this is can be a very hard thing to subject yourself
to because you might think you know these people just they just don't get it and I spent so much time
on this but this is the purest test to see how well your app is going to be used by your users.
Different strategies that you can use to get there.
So the very first one is you've got to experiment.
You know the whole idea.
Remember the main goal here with ASIO is you're trying to get your app to rank as high as possible either
when someone searches something or on some sort of trending page and Google what they use to decide
which apps go up or down.
This is a super top secret for them.
They don't want to know what goes into their algorithm to decide which apps are going to be at the top
and which apps are going to be at the bottom.
And so you've always got to try different things to see if you can't get something to click.
And there's all sorts of great blogs out there with people talking about you know what things they're
doing that they think are working or not working.
I mean there's also the idea out there that if you know some new secret tip that's working you're not
going to share it with the world so I don't know always how much you can trust on those blogs.
But I found some valuable information that I think have helped my out.
But really the biggest impact I've seen on my own apps is when I experimented with things on my own
and just found some excellent excellent results.
The next thing I want to talk about and this is probably the most important with ASIO is your title
your key words and your description.
So Win the Google Play Store is deciding what order to rank apps.
You know someone's searching for something if for example we were going to use my later app it's a little
bit off because I the later app is in the Google Play app.
But if someone was going to search for example schedule a text or maybe postpone Tech something like
that.
Like I want my app to shoot up to the front.
So inside of Google Play they give you a place to list title a key word and descriptions and you want
to make sure you put in the correct information so that when someone's searching for the relevant terms
that you pop up and there's all sorts of different services out there that will help you understand
how to do this.
And one that I really like and recommend is called app Annie.
The kind of help you pick what your title should be.
You know keywords that you should have description that will also help you track the number of downloads
that you have so that you can see oh what kind of impact are these words having on whatever but it was
me personally with that weightlifting app that I had I eventually got that in the App Store when I had
tweaked the title to put in the correct key words I remember overnight I tripled my downloads.
That is no small feat to triple your daily downloads.
It was just a holiday lujah moment like oh my goodness I can't believe this.
And so for me in that instance it was picking the right words in using the max amount of characters
that were allowed with the title in order to do that.
And since then the AppStore rules have changed and that was shut down so that you know that technique
didn't work as well and that's something that happens all the time with a.
So there's something that's going to make your ab juice up to the top but then all sudden Google place
or Apple says now you know what.
We don't think we should allow that anymore so we're going to you know cut that back.
And so that's just something you've got to be aware of but but so to take the top recommendation of
experiment I would add it to here with the title keywords and descriptions you always want to be testing
out new titles keywords descriptions and see what really hits in sticks with people.
The next one is reviews.
So there's two reasons to have really good reviews.
One is that it's going to put you up inside of Google plays rankings.
That's a pretty big one right there.
The next one is when someone comes to your page and they see an app that has lots of reviews and that
are good reviews.
They're going to say oh you know this is an app that I should get there like there's like some social
proof there.
Like other people are you know downloading this thing they seem to like it.
I think I'll go ahead and do it.
So you got to make sure that you have good reviews.
So how do you get good reviews.
Well I mean sort of the basic answer is make sure you have a good app right.
If someone ever writes a you know bad review because they had like a bug or some feature was missing.
See what you can do in order to fix that.
You can't always please every single reviewer out there you're going to go crazy trying to do that.
But see what you can do.
The next thing though is when you put your app into the app store initially you're probably not going
to get very many downloads which I mean without a lot of downloads probably a lot of people are going
to leave reviews.
So I recommend for your very first app maybe go talk to your family and friends and say hey could you
download my app and leave an honest review of what you thought the app was like.
You know I need sort of some social proof for my app and whenever I did that my friends were more than
understanding and that really helped me to kind of get an initial base in order to move forward.
The next one is localizations So this is an awesome little secret that I love and the basic story here
is that you take your app if you like me.
You speak English you made your app for English speakers but probably other people would find your app
interesting.
So what you need to do is take your title your keywords and descriptions and make a Chinese title a
Chinese description and stuff like that do the same thing for German Japanese Spanish like as many languages
as you can and by doing that you'll see your app show up more prominently in those app stores cars.
For example if there's a German user that was searching for scheduling a text later which I don't know
how to say that and Durbin maybe it's scheduled taxed I don't know.
That was the worst German accent in the world.
But you know that my app would probably not show up but if I had translated my title into German There
is a much better chance that one my app would show up for that user.
But to that they would say oh this person took the time to change the title into German.
I think I'll go ahead and check it out.
And so this localization This will take a little bit of effort right because you've got to translate
your title your descriptions all that stuff.
Even better if you can translate the name of buttons and menus and stuff inside your app.
That's just one step better.
I found the most basic thing you can do is maybe just look up the top three languages in the world.
I mean it's probably Chinese English and Spanish is my guess the top three but you know get your just
maybe some of the most popular languages in the world you can just even use google translate free tool
to you know just plug in your title here it'll show the translated version there and go add all those
localized versions.
When I did that for that weightlifting app remember that one I had seen the three x boost from the title
change when I did the localization.
I think that did maybe a 1.5 change there.
So again that was you know some really big stuff.
The next one is and this is my absolute favorite is I want you to visit your page as a potential customer
because I think this one really just you'll start doing the right things after that so you're someone
who has a phone and you download apps.
What is it that you look for when you're going to go download apps.
You need to take that same mentality and apply it to your own app.
So I would go ahead and try searching for your app with whatever search term you think people would
use and make sure the apps not installed on your phone so you can see what it looks like and then you
know go look at the title the description the screenshots that are provided maybe a promo video that
you have there maybe you have a lack of a promo video and you think oh maybe add a promo video people
would like it more but just come look at your app page in the Google Play store with fresh eyes and
just think would I download my own app like would I trust my own app.
Does this look professional enough and maybe you'll think an I should really change that iconic title
IX janky or maybe you'll think oh I found this you know grammar error and said in my description I need
to fix that or the screen shot really doesn't convey what my app does but coming to your app with fresh
eyes and you know saying I'm going to be a potential customer that's going to really help you to see
what it is that someone is looking for in a nap and kind of the next time you go to download an app
like you're going maybe to a baseball game and you want to get an app that's going to track the player's
stats so you go search like baseball stat track or write something completely unrelated to your app
but just sort of pay attention to what it is that you're looking for when you're searching through apps
like do you look for the highest ratings first do you look for the most downloads.
Do you look for the best icons or whatever it is like just to pay attention to your patterns.
And I think you can apply that to most other users when they're looking through the Google Play store.
Well I hope you enjoyed this lecture on marketing.
Again we had sort of the general stuff here and then now we have the app store optimization sort of
two separate worlds.
But if you have any questions need any help feel free to leave a comment on the video and we'd be more
than happy to talk more.